# **Starting and Managing a Data Collection Project**

This section explains how to start and manage a long-term data collection project. Managing a long-term project is not merely limited to collecting data and having a careful system for backing up files---although, file managment is certainly an important aspect of project management. Project management also includes monitoring the content of the data, conducting test analyses, and adjusting or augmenting the project research question as data collection is underway. Social network users and trends are dynamic, always shifting and changing, and so researchers interested in conducting social network research have to be prepared to adjust or shift the scope of their projects while collecting data.

This section and the next section, "Developing a Reserach Question," are complimentary. While the "Developing a Research Question" section explains the importance of understanding the available data types when developing a research project, this section is also important to the process of developing a research question. Often, it is not until data collection begins that a more viable or sustainable research question emerges. The data may encourage other questions or redirect the project entirely, and therefore properly managing a data collection means also paying close attention to the data while it is collected. 

However, sometimes researchers are interested in collecting data because something within a social network is relevant, trending, or possibly viral. In these cases, which are frequent, scholars do not yet have a scope or particular question for their project, and need to start collecting data as soon as possible for exploratory purposes (and because many trends come and go quickly). Social networks are a useful site for exploratoring new possibilities for social and political research, for studying the flow of information, for investigating the sharing and remixing of digital artifacts, or for understanding the composition of particular user networks. 
